Eth supply content added (#13673)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/eth/supply/index.md

---
title: ETH supply
description: How Does ETH Supply Work
lang: en
---

## How Many ETH Are There?

> Unlike Bitcoin, which has a capped supply of 21 million coins, Ethereum doesn't have a predefined limit on the total number of ETH that can exist. Instead, the supply grows over time through a process called mining, where miners validate transactions and add them to the Ethereum blockchain. In return for their computational work, miners receive newly minted ETH as rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike Bitcoin, which has a capped supply of 21 million coins, Ethereum doesn't have a predefined limit on the total number of ETH that can exist. Instead, the supply grows over time through a process called mining, where miners validate transactions and add them to the Ethereum blockchain. In return for their computational work, miners receive newly minted ETH as rewards.
```
there is no mining anymore in Ethereum, this would be misleading to open  #the article with this topic. Should be removed.

> The rate at which new ETH enters circulation has varied over time due to protocol upgrades. Initially, the reward per mined block was set at 5 ETH, but changes such as the [Ethereum Improvement Proposal](https://eips.ethereum.org/) (EIP) 1559 introduced in August 2021 have altered the dynamics. [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559) introduced a mechanism that burns a portion of transaction fees, potentially reducing the net issuance of new ETH under certain conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
While this could be interesting for some, this is a bit of historical information that isnt necessary for the goal of this article and thus should be removed.

## How Does the Supply Work?

> The creation and distribution of ETH are governed by rules encoded in the Ethereum protocol, which operates on a consensus mechanism known as Proof of Stake (PoS), following the transition from Proof of Work (PoW) with the Ethereum 2.0 upgrade. Miners, now referred to as validators in the PoS model, are chosen to create new blocks and validate transactions based on the amount of ETH they hold and are willing to "stake" as collateral.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation and distribution of ETH are governed by rules encoded in the Ethereum protocol, which operates on a consensus mechanism known as Proof of Stake (PoS), following the transition from Proof of Work (PoW) in 2022. Miners, now referred to as validators in the PoS model, are chosen to create new blocks and validate transactions based on the amount of ETH they hold and are willing to "stake" as collateral.
```

Validators are rewarded with newly minted ETH for successfully creating a block, but they also risk losing a portion of their staked ETH if they act maliciously or fail to perform their duties correctly. This system ensures network security and integrity while also controlling the rate of new ETH entering circulation.

## How Is It Different From Real World Currencies?
ETH differs significantly from traditional fiat currencies issued by central banks. 

- Decentralization: Unlike national currencies controlled by central authorities, ETH's supply is managed by a decentralized network of validators. This removes the risk of single-point control and manipulation.

- Transparency and Predictability: The rules governing ETH supply are transparent and predictable, coded into the Ethereum protocol. Changes require community consensus, unlike fiat currency policies that can change based on political decisions.

> - Scarcity Mechanism: While fiat currencies can be printed indefinitely leading to inflation, mechanisms like EIP-1559 introduce scarcity by burning part of the transaction fees, potentially making ETH deflationary under high network demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scarcity Mechanism: While fiat currencies can be printed indefinitely leading to inflation, Ethereum introduced mechanisms for scarcity by burning part of the transaction fees, potentially making ETH deflationary under high network demand.
```
